---
id: ethical_implications
title: Ethical Implications
sidebar_label: Ethical Implications
---

There are many ethical standards that professionals must take into account when building a system. They must ensure that their application will abide by a standard code of ethical conduct. This is very important for computing professionals, as their products and services will be potentially utilized by thousands of users on a daily basis. The Writing Advisor Review System follows ethical guidelines in accordance to the ACM Code of Ethics and basic human rights such as privacy. The ACM Code of Ethics is designed to "inspire and guide the ethical conduct of all computing professionals, including current and aspiring practitioners, instructors, students, influencers, and anyone who uses computing technology in an impactful way.

ACM general ethical principle 1.1 states professionals must contribute to society and human well-being, acknowledge that all people are stakeholders in computing. Team WAR acknowledges that the users of this system will contribute to the well-being of the writing community as professional reviewers. ACM general ethical principle 1.1 states professionals must be honest and trustworthy. There is no false advertisement to the reviewer on our system. There is no way for the reviewer to use the system for harm against users who submit these essays. The reviewer will validate sentences as correct or incorrect to the best of their professional ability. To use the system, our users must agree to abide by the standards of Marist College Writing Center, as they are an employees at the Marist College Writing Center. Also, per standards of the Marist Writing Center, ACM general principle 1.7 states to honor confidentiality. Administrators of the system, nor it's users will not expose the contents of the sentences being reviewed. We recognize that some sentences may come from assignments be personal and contain private information that the student does not want to be released.

ACM general ethical principle 1.4 states that professionals must be fair and take action not to discriminate Team WAR does not discriminate against the users of our who can use our product Marist celebrates diversity. As long a student is enrolled at Marist college they can use our product no matter what age, color, disability, ethnicity, family status, gender identity, labor union membership, military status, nationality, race, religion or belief, sex, or sexual orientation. In addition, while building our system we kept in mind those who are color blind and have implemented a dark mode; making it colorblind-friendly.

In the technology world, even authorized access may lead to privacy concerns. Improper access to personal information is a violation of a user's privacy. We believe it is essential that all users of our system maintain a right to privacy. Hence, when our database stores user information, we consider all the ethical implications of holding this information. ACM general principle 1.6 is about respecting privacy. In order to comply with this principle, \*We will be transparent that the data entered will be used to train our models as per the disclaimer on the sign on-page. We will only collect the minimum amount of information needed (full name & student ID). On the admin page data is collected to see login activity however, this will not be tied to the specific user’s identity. In addition, WAR does not allow anyone to access site statistics unless they have authorized access to the system. We believe it is important that the user knows that data cannot be sent to third-party applicants. When it comes to privacy, we are collecting the data we need to train our models. Users do not have to worry about their data being exploited.

Team WAR has thoughtfully designed this system so that it does not demean or take away from the reviewing skills of the individual. Designing or implementing systems that deliberately demean an individual’s ability is not ethical. In doing so, we are protecting the confidentiality, well-being, privacy, and discrimination against the users of our system. We understand we are responsible for enhancing, and not degrading the quality of working life. We recognize and accept the reviewers’ safety, professional development and knowledge. Furthermore, it is imperative to understand that our system, is not meant to replace the jobs of the individuals in the Marist College Writing Center. Our system is simply a tool that is meant to motivate the employees to perform their work more efficiently; while also helping teach the Marist College reviewers. Implementing these ethical codes required more attention to this project, however, Team WAR sees the importance in doing so. To us, it is better for our system to be built from the ground up with these guidelines in mind so that fewer problems arise in the future. We are committed to helping the Marist College community as it has positively affected each of our team members. Our goal is to promote the same values the college has taught us into the systems we create. 

