---
id: expectation_v_reality
title: Expectation vs. Reality
sidebar_label: Expectation vs. Reality
---

In comparison to the [initital project plan](/docs/final_schedule), there has been many alterations, setbacks, and updates to the schedule. This is typical for any software development project as it is hard to anticipate final outcomes. It is also difficult to anticipate what the client will ask of the team, so one must do their best to prepare. 

The first requirement that the client added beyond initial requirements was that the leaderboard must display the top users of the system. This posed no major alterations to the system. The second requirement the client proposed was that the system had to be designed so that if the writing center asked for other rules to be added (other than the five original rules), it could easily be done so. At this point, the ER diagram had been completed, the database had been created, and the swagger definition was set up with all appropriate API routes. To complete this request called for an entire renovation of our ER Diagram, which eventually led to a re-do of all other activities mentioned. This set us back a few weeks in terms of the progress we had initially made. Once the new renovation was approved the team pondered on further questions regarding this new design and needed clarifications from the client until we could proceed. In essence, the final approval was needed to continue on, or else we might find ourselves back at square one once again.

Fortunately, the new design was approved and Team War was able to get back on track. The client had initial plans for training models from the system. This was not part of the original requirements but was mentioned as a potential extra feature to the system. We had left a few weeks in our schedule dedicated to complete these AI tasks. However, the client said we did not have the necessary outside information and work completed to carry out these tasks. This led to the client providing python scripts which we used to produce the outcome seen on the AI Page. In the future, these tables could display real information based on training model data. The IT requirements provided in the section below were also created at beginning stages of this project where we anticipated a need for much more memory due to the AI training data. Throughout the semester, we also have encounted work items that took us longer than expected due to bugs. One example of this was facing issues with connecting the front end to the API. The Redux state was not assigning correct values 100 percent of the time. In due time, we were able to resolve this issue by chaining promise resolutions to a dedicated attribute in the state to allow asynchronous calls to be handled synchronously. Integration to the front-end also took us more weeks than we had initially planned for. Our original sceduele planned for all integration to be completed by October 9th! However, we found ourselves integrating from the back end to the front end until almost the end of the project timeline.

Overall, Team WAR is very satisfied with the outcome of the project and believes we have met all of the requirements requested by the client. We have taken all measures to document our work accurately so that this project may be useful and possibily expanded on in the future. This project is the foundation to a project that has great potential to expand its functionalities in addition to AI model training. All meetings with the client are documented below. 